RHDEVDOCS-5062: Documenting Pipelines 1.10 RN (#58061)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/op-release-notes-1-10.adoc

[id="op-release-notes-1-10_{context}"]
= Release notes for {pipelines-title} General Availability 1.10

With this update, {pipelines-title} General Availability (GA) 1.10 is available on {product-title} 4.11 and later versions.

[id="new-features-1-10_{context}"]
== New features

In addition to the fixes and stability improvements, the following sections highlight what is new in {pipelines-title} 1.10.

[id="pipelines-new-features-1-10_{context}"]
=== Pipelines

* With this update, you can configure the port on which the webhook server communicates by using the `WEBHOOK_PORT` environment variable.
* With this update, a pipeline sets the source value for a cluster resource to link back to its origin, which includes a source URL and hex-encoded sha256 checksum of the cluster resource.
* With this update, a pipeline captures the correct information about the source from where the remote images were received. 
* This update adds a new boolean flag `enable-provenance-in-status` in the feature-flag ConfigMap to enable the provenance field in status to be populated. The provenance field in status records authenticated metadata about how a software artifact was built.

> * The update sets the `ConfigSource` value for a Git resolver to record the source from where the remote resources were received.

Author: Removed

> * This update adds reconciler, event, config, and webhook support for a custom run.

Author: Added this point

* With this update, the trusted resource feature enables Tekton pipelines to verify the resources that are resolved from a resolver. This update helps you to configure public keys in a config map and enable or disable this feature by using the feature flag `resource-verification-mode`. When you enable this feature, public key files are mounted as secrets into a pipeline and used for verification. A `TaskRun` or `PipelineRun` with failed verification will be stopped from execution if the `resource-verification-mode` flag is set to `enforce`.

> * This update populates the `Status.Provenance.ConfigSource` field for a `TaskRun` or `PipelineRun` by using the value from the remote `ResolutionRequest` status.

Author: Removed

* This update adds support to pass a Container Storage Interface (CSI) file as workspace at the time of starting a `Task`, `ClusterTask` or `Pipeline`. 
* This update adds v1 API support to all CLI commands associated with task, pipeline, pipeline run, and task run resources. Tekton CLI works fine with both v1beta1 and v1 APIs for these resources.
* This update adds support for an object type parameter in the `star` and `describe` commands.

[id="operator-new-features-1-10_{context}"]
=== Operator

* This update adds a `default-forbidden-env` parameter in optional pipeline properties. The parameter includes forbidden environment variables that should not be propagated if provided through pod templates.
* This update adds support for custom logos in Tekton Hub UI. To add a custom logo, set the value of the `customLogo` parameter to base64 encoded URI of logo in the Tekton Hub CR. 
* This update increments the version number of the git-clone task to 0.9.

> * This update adds the `resource-verification-mode` and `enable-provenance-in-status` parameters in the `feature-flag` config map for pipelines.

Author: Removed

* With this update, Sigstore features are moved out from the experimental features.
* With this update, the `predicate.materials` function includes image URI and digest information from all steps and sidecars for a `TaskRun`.

[id="tekton-hub-new-features-1-10_{context}"]
=== {tekton-hub}

* This update supports install, upgrade, or downgrade of Tekton resources with API versions `tekton.dev/v1beta1` and `tekton.dev/v1` on the cluster.
* This update supports adding a custom logo in place of the {tekton-hub} logo in UI.
* This update extends the `tkn hub install` command functionality by adding a flag `--type artifact`, which fetches resources from the Artifact Hub and install them on your cluster.
* This update adds support tier, catalog, and org information as labels to the resources being installed  from Artifact Hub to your cluster.

[id="pac-new-features-1-10_{context}"]
=== {pac}

* This update enhances incoming webhook support. For a GitHub application installed on the cluster, you do not need to provide the `git_provider` specification for an incoming webhook. Instead, {pac} detects the secret and use it for the incoming webhook.

> * This update enhances incoming webhook support. You do not need to provide a personal token when using the GitHub App driver. You only need to have the repository CR into the namespace that matches with the GitHub URL and an incoming webhook secret. {pac} automatically generates temporary tokens for the GitHub API operations.

Reviewer: I feel both are pointing to same feature

Author: I also felt both are pointing to the same feature, but then the descriptions looked a bit different. This is why kept both of them. Now, I am removing the second bullet.

Reviewer: Looks good to me

// Module included in the following assembly:
//
// * cicd/pipelines/op-release-notes.adoc
:_content-type: REFERENCE
[id="op-release-notes-1-10_{context}"]
= Release notes for {pipelines-title} General Availability 1.10

With this update, {pipelines-title} General Availability (GA) 1.10 is available on {product-title} 4.11 and later versions.

[id="new-features-1-10_{context}"]
== New features

> In addition to the fixes and stability improvements, the following sections highlight what is new in {pipelines-title} 1.10.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In addition to fixes and stability improvements, the following sections highlight what is new in {pipelines-title} 1.10.
```
- remove definite article

[id="pipelines-new-features-1-10_{context}"]
=== Pipelines

> * With this update, you can specify environment variables in a `PipelineRun` or `TaskRun` pod template to override or append the variables that are configured in a task or step. Also, you can specify environment variables in a default pod template to use those variables globally for all `PipelineRuns` and `TaskRuns`. This update also adds a new default configuration `forbidden-ends` to filter the environment variables while propagating from pod templates.

Reviewer 3: this is a nw field added in pipeline config-defaults feature flag to set forbidden-envs

> * With this update, you can specify environment variables in a `PipelineRun` or `TaskRun` pod template to override or append the variables that are configured in a task or step. Also, you can specify environment variables in a default pod template to use those variables globally for all `PipelineRuns` and `TaskRuns`. This update also adds a new default configuration `forbidden-ends` to filter the environment variables while propagating from pod templates.

Author: done

> * With this update, you can specify environment variables in a `PipelineRun` or `TaskRun` pod template to override or append the variables that are configured in a task or step. Also, you can specify environment variables in a default pod template to use those variables globally for all `PipelineRuns` and `TaskRuns`. This update also adds a new default configuration `forbidden-envs` to filter the environment variables while propagating from pod templates.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* With this update, you can specify environment variables in a `PipelineRun` or `TaskRun` pod template to override or append the variables that are configured in a task or step. Also, you can specify environment variables in a default pod template to use those variables globally for all `PipelineRuns` and `TaskRuns`. This update also adds a new default configuration named `forbidden-envs` to filter environment variables while propagating from pod templates.
```
- add `named`
- remove definite article

* With this update, custom tasks in pipelines are enabled by default. 
+
[NOTE]
====

> To disable this update, set the `enable-custom-tasks` flag to `false` in the `feature-flags` config map file.

Author: done

====

* This update supports the `v1beta1.CustomRun` API version for custom tasks.

> * This update adds support for the `PipelineRun` reconciler to create a custom run. For example, custom `TaskRuns` created from `PipelineRuns` can now use API version `v1beta1.CustomRun` instead of `v1alpha1.Run`, if the `custom-task-version` feature flag is set to `v1beta1`, instead of the default value `v1alpha1`. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* This update adds support for the `PipelineRun` reconciler to create a custom run. For example, custom `TaskRuns` created from `PipelineRuns` can now use the `v1beta1.CustomRun` API version instead of `v1alpha1.Run`, if the `custom-task-version` feature flag is set to `v1beta1`, instead of the default value `v1alpha1`. 
```
- Edit for idiomatic syntax

+
[NOTE]
====
You need to update the custom task controller to listen for the `*v1beta1.CustomRun` API version instead of `*v1alpha1.Run` in order to respond to `v1beta1.CustomRun` requests.
====

> * This update adds a new parameter `Retries` into `v1beta1.TaskRun` and `v1.TaskRun` API versions.

Reviewer 4: It should be `retries` and it is not param, it is a field in taskrun spec.
cc: @vdemeester

Author: done

> * This update adds a new field `retries` into `v1beta1.TaskRun` and `v1.TaskRun` specifications.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* This update adds a new `retries` field to the `v1beta1.TaskRun` and `v1.TaskRun` specifications.
```

[id="triggers-new-features-1-10_{context}"]
=== Triggers

* With this update, triggers support the creation of v1 `Pipelines`, `Tasks`, `PipelineRuns`, `TaskRuns`, and v1beta1 `CustomRuns` objects.
* With this update, GitHub Interceptor blocks a pull request trigger from being executed unless invoked by an owner or with a configurable comment by an owner. 
+
[NOTE]
====
To enable or disable this update, set the value of the `githubOwners` parameter to `true` or `false` in the GitHub Interceptor configuration file.
====

* With this update, GitHub Interceptor has the ability to add a comma delimited list of all files that have changed for the push and pull request events. The list of changed files is added to the `changed_files` property of the event payload in the top-level extensions field.

> * This update changes TLS `MinVersion` to `tls.VersionTLS12` so that triggers run on {product-title} when the Federal Information Processing Standards (FIPS) mode is enabled.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* This update changes the `MinVersion` of TLS to `tls.VersionTLS12` so that triggers run on {product-title} when the Federal Information Processing Standards (FIPS) mode is enabled.
```

[id="cli-new-features-1-10_{context}"]
=== CLI

> * This update adds support to pass a Container Storage Interface (CSI) file as workspace at the time of starting a `Task`, `ClusterTask` or `Pipeline`. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* This update adds support to pass a Container Storage Interface (CSI) file as a workspace at the time of starting a `Task`, `ClusterTask` or `Pipeline`. 
```
- Not sure about this, but it doesn't sound idiomatic without the indefinite article

> * This update adds v1 API support to all CLI commands associated with task, pipeline, pipeline run, and task run resources. Tekton CLI works fine with both v1beta1 and v1 APIs for these resources.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* This update adds v1 API support to all CLI commands associated with task, pipeline, pipeline run, and task run resources. Tekton CLI works with both v1beta1 and v1 APIs for these resources.
```
- too informal and unnecessary to include `fine`

* This update adds support for an object type parameter in the `start` and `describe` commands.

[id="operator-new-features-1-10_{context}"]
=== Operator

* This update adds a `default-forbidden-env` parameter in optional pipeline properties. The parameter includes forbidden environment variables that should not be propagated if provided through pod templates.
* This update adds support for custom logos in Tekton Hub UI. To add a custom logo, set the value of the `customLogo` parameter to base64 encoded URI of logo in the Tekton Hub CR. 
* This update increments the version number of the git-clone task to 0.9.

[id="chains-new-features-1-10_{context}"]
=== Tekton Chains

* This update adds annotations and labels to the `PipelineRun` and `TaskRun` attestations.

> * This update adds a new format `slsa/v1`, which generates the same provenance as the one generated when requesting in the `in-toto` format.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* This update adds a new format named `slsa/v1`, which generates the same provenance as the one generated when requesting in the `in-toto` format.
```

* With this update, Sigstore features are moved out from the experimental features.

> * With this update, the `predicate.materials` function includes image URI and digest information from all steps and sidecars for a `TaskRun`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* With this update, the `predicate.materials` function includes image URI and digest information from all steps and sidecars for a `TaskRun` event.
```
- Not sure if `event` is the right word here, but `TaskRun` needs a modifier

[id="tekton-hub-new-features-1-10_{context}"]
=== {tekton-hub}

> * This update supports installing, upgrading, or downgrading Tekton resources of v1 API version on the cluster.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* This update supports installing, upgrading, or downgrading Tekton resources of the `v1` API version on the cluster.
```
- not sure if this is technically correct, but a literal would be better here.

* This update supports adding a custom logo in place of the {tekton-hub} logo in UI.

> * This update extends the `tkn hub install` command functionality by adding a flag `--type artifact`, which fetches resources from the Artifact Hub and install them on your cluster.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* This update extends the `tkn hub install` command functionality by adding a `--type artifact` flag, which fetches resources from the Artifact Hub and installs them on your cluster.
```
- edit for idiomatic syntax
- fix subject/verb disagreement

* With this update, you can use the same token to fetch remote tasks from the same host on GitHub with a non-default branch.
* With this update, {pac} supports Tekton v1 templates. You can have v1 and v1beta1 templates, which {pac} reads for PR generation. The PR is created as v1 on cluster.
* Before this update, OpenShift console UI would use a hardcoded pipeline run template as a fallback template when a runtime template was not found in the OpenShift namespace. This update provides a default pipeline run template for the console to use, `pipelines-as-code-template-default`, in the `pipelines-as-code` config map. 
* With this update, {pac} supports Tekton Pipelines 0.44.0 minimal status. 
* With this update, {pac} supports Tekton v1 API, which means {pac} is now compatible with Tekton v0.44 and later.
* With this update, you can configure custom console dashboards in addition to configuring a console for OpenShift and Tekton dashboards for k8s.
* With this update, {pac} detects the installation of a GitHub application initiated using the `tkn pac create repo` command and does not require a GitHub webhook if it was installed globally.

> * Before this update, if there was an error on a `PipelineRun` execution and not on the tasks attached to `PipelineRun`, {pac} would not report the failure properly. With this update, {pac} reports the error properly on the GitHub checks when a `PipelineRun` could not get created.  

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Before this update, if there was an error on a `PipelineRun` execution and not on the tasks attached to `PipelineRun`, {pac} would not report the failure properly. With this update, {pac} reports the error properly on the GitHub checks when a `PipelineRun` could not be created.  
```
- passive voice is better here

* With this update, {pac} includes a `target_namespace` variable, which expands to the currently running namespace where the `PipelineRun` is executed.
* With this update, {pac} lets you bypass GitHub enterprise questions in the CLI bootstrap GitHub application.
* With this update, {pac} does not report errors when the repository CR was not found.
* With this update, {pac} reports an error if multiple pipeline runs with the same name were found.

[id="breaking-changes-1-10_{context}"]
== Breaking changes

* With this update, the prior version of the `tkn` command is not compatible with {pipelines-title} 1.10.

> * This update removes support for cluster and `CloudEvent` pipeline resources from Tekton CLI. You cannot create pipeline resources by using the `tkn pipelineresource create` command. Also, the pipeline resources are not supported anymore in the `start` command of a task, cluster task, and pipeline.

Reviewer 4: `Cluster` and `CloudEvent`
cc: @piyush-garg

Reviewer 3: yes

> * This update removes support for `Cluster` and `CloudEvent` pipeline resources from Tekton CLI. You cannot create pipeline resources by using the `tkn pipelineresource create` command. Also, the pipeline resources are not supported anymore in the `start` command of a task, cluster task, and pipeline.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* This update removes support for `Cluster` and `CloudEvent` pipeline resources from Tekton CLI. You cannot create pipeline resources by using the `tkn pipelineresource create` command. Also, pipeline resources are no longer supported in the `start` command of a task, cluster task, or pipeline.
```

* This update removes `tekton` as a provenance format from Tekton Chains.

[id="deprecated-features-1-10_{context}"]
== Deprecated and removed features

* In {pipelines-title} 1.10, the `ClusterTask` commands are now deprecated and are planned to be removed in a future release. The `tkn task create` command is also deprecated with this update. 
* In {pipelines-title} 1.10, the flags `-i` and `-o` that were used with the `tkn task start` command are now deprecated because the v1 API does not support pipeline resources.
* In {pipelines-title} 1.10, the flag `-r` that was used with the `tkn pipeline start` command is deprecated because the v1 API does not support pipeline resources.
* The {pipelines-title} 1.10 update sets the `openshiftDefaultEmbeddedStatus` parameter to `both` with `full` and `minimal` embedded status. Also, the flag to change the default embedded status will be removed and the pipeline default embedded status will be moved to minimal in a future release.

[id="known-issues-1-10_{context}"]
== Known issues

* This update includes the following backward incompatible changes:

> ** Removal of cluster `PipelineResources`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
** Removal of the `PipelineResources` cluster
```

> ** Removal of cloud event `PipelineResources` 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
** Removal of the `PipelineResources` cloud event
```

* If the pipelines metrics feature does not work after a cluster upgrade, run the following command as a workaround:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc get tektoninstallersets.operator.tekton.dev | awk '/pipeline-main-static/ {print $1}' | xargs oc delete tektoninstallersets
----
* With this update, usage of external databases, such as the Crunchy PostgreSQL is not supported on {ibmpowerProductName}, {ibmzProductName}, and {linuxoneProductName}. Instead, use the default {tekton-hub} database. 

[id="fixed-issues-1-10_{context}"]
== Fixed issues

* Before this update, the `opc pac` command generated a runtime error instead of showing any help. This update fixes the `opc pac` command to show the help message.
* Before this update, running the `tkn pac create repo` command needed the webhook details for creating a repository. With this update, the `tkn-pac create repo` command does not configure a webhook when your GitHub application is installed.

> * Before this update, Pipelines as Code would not report a pipeline run creation error when Tekton Pipelines had issues creating the `PipelineRun` resource. For example, a non-existing task in a pipeline run would show no status. With this update, PAC shows the proper error message coming from `tekton/pipeline` along with the task that is missing.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Before this update, Pipelines as Code would not report a pipeline run creation error when Tekton Pipelines had issues creating the `PipelineRun` resource. For example, a non-existing task in a pipeline run would show no status. With this update, PAC shows the proper error message coming from `tekton/pipeline` along with the task that is missing.
```
The `tekton/pipeline` literal needs a modifier. 

Check here for more information about modifiers for objects and literal values: https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/blob/main/contributing_to_docs/doc_guidelines.adoc#object-references

* This update fixes UI page redirection after a successful authentication. Now, you are redirected to the same page where you had attempted to log in to Tekton Hub.
* This update fixes the `list` command with these flags, `--all-namespaces` and `--output=yaml`, for a cluster task, an individual task, and a pipeline.

> * This update removes the forward slash in the end of the `repo.spec.url` URL so that it matches with the URL coming from GitHub.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* This update removes the forward slash in the end of the `repo.spec.url` URL so that it matches the URL coming from GitHub.
```

* Before this update, the `marshalJSON` function would not marshal a list of objects. With this update, the `marshalJSON` function marshals the list of objects.

> * With this update, PAC lets you bypass GitHub enterprise questions in the CLI bootstrap GitHub application.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* With this update, PAC lets you bypass GitHub enterprise questions in the CLI bootstrap GitHub application.
```
- Should `PAC` be using a product name attribute?

* This update fixes the GitHub collaborator check when your repository has more than 100 users.

> * With this update, the `sign` and `verify` commands for a task or pipeline work fine without the kubernetes configuration file.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* With this update, the `sign` and `verify` commands for a task or pipeline now work without a Kubernetes configuration file.
```

* With this update, Tekton Operator cleans leftover pruner cron jobs if pruner has been skipped on a namespace.

> * Before this update, the API `ConfigMap` would not be updated with user configured value for catalog refresh interval. This update fixes the `CATALOG_REFRESH_INTERVAL` API in the Tekon Hub CR.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Before this update, the API `ConfigMap` object would not be updated with a user configured value for a catalog refresh interval. This update fixes the `CATALOG_REFRESH_INTERVAL` API in the Tekon Hub CR.
```

* This update fixes reconciling of `PipelineRunStatus` when changing the `EmbeddedStatus` feature flag. This update resets the following parameters: 

> ** Reset the `status.runs` and `status.taskruns` parameters to `nil` with `minimal EmbeddedStatus` 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
** The `status.runs` and `status.taskruns` parameters to `nil` with `minimal EmbeddedStatus` 
```

> ** Reset the `status.childReferences` parameter to `nil` with `full EmbeddedStatus`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
** The `status.childReferences` parameter to `nil` with `full EmbeddedStatus`
```
For both of these items, the lead-in sentence to the sub-list already says that these things are reset, so imo no need to repeat `reset` in the sub-list

> * This update adds a conversion configuration to the `ResolutionRequest` CRD. This update properly configures conversion from `v1alpha1.ResolutionRequest` to `v1beta1.ResolutionRequest`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* This update adds a conversion configuration to the `ResolutionRequest` CRD. This update properly configures conversion from `v1alpha1.ResolutionRequest` to `v1beta1.ResolutionRequest`.
```
The backticked items need modifiers

Author: The backticked items are a type of request only

// Module included in the following assembly:
//
// * cicd/pipelines/op-release-notes.adoc
:_content-type: REFERENCE
[id="op-release-notes-1-10_{context}"]
= Release notes for {pipelines-title} General Availability 1.10

With this update, {pipelines-title} General Availability (GA) 1.10 is available on {product-title} 4.11 and later versions.

[id="new-features-1-10_{context}"]
== New features

In addition to the fixes and stability improvements, the following sections highlight what is new in {pipelines-title} 1.10.

[id="pipelines-new-features-1-10_{context}"]
=== Pipelines

* With this update, you can specify environment variables in a `PipelineRun` or `TaskRun` pod template to override or append the variables that are configured in a task or step. Also, you can specify environment variables in a default pod template to use those variables globally for all `PipelineRuns` and `TaskRuns`. This update also adds a new default configuration `forbidden-ends` to filter the environment variables while propagating from pod templates.

> * With this update, for a cluster resolver, bundle resolver, and Git resolver, a pipeline sets the `ConfigSource` value to its source from where the remote resources were received. The `ConfigSource` parameter includes a source URL and hex-encoded sha256 checksum of the cluster resource.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
* With this update, for a cluster resolver, bundle resolver, and Git resolver, a pipeline sets the `ConfigSource` value to the source from where the remote resources were received. The `ConfigSource` parameter includes a source URL and hex-encoded sha256 checksum of the cluster resource.
```

> * This update adds a new boolean flag `enable-provenance-in-status` into the `feature-flags` config map to enable the provenance field in status to be populated. The provenance field in status records authenticated metadata about how a software artifact was built.

Reviewer 5: This part is a bit difficult to read: "The provenance field in status records authenticated metadata (...).
Can you simply say "The field records authenticated metadata (...)." instead?

* This update adds reconciler, event, config, and webhook support for a custom run.
* This update populates the `Status.Provenance.ConfigSource` parameter for a `TaskRun` or `PipelineRun` by using the value from the remote `ResolutionRequest` status.
+
[NOTE]
====
You need to set the feature flag `enable-provenance-in-status` to `true` to enable the `Status.Provenance.ConfigSource` parameter to be populated and available in a run status.
====

> * With this update, custom tasks in pipelines are enabled by default. To disable this update, set the `enable-custom-tasks` flag to `false` in the `feature-flags` config map file.

Reviewer 5: For consistency, shouldn't the information about how to disable the update be an admonition, too?

> * This update adds support for the `PipelineRun` reconciler to create a custom run. For example, custom `TaskRuns` created from `PipelineRuns` can now be of API version `v1beta1.CustomRuns` instead of `v1alpha1.Runs`, if the `custom-task-version` feature flag is set to `v1beta1`, instead of the default value `v1alpha1`. 

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
* This update adds support for the `PipelineRun` reconciler to create a custom run. For example, custom `TaskRuns` created from `PipelineRuns` can now use API version `v1beta1.CustomRuns` instead of `v1alpha1.Runs`, if the `custom-task-version` feature flag is set to `v1beta1`, instead of the default value `v1alpha1`. 
```

* This update changes TLS `MinVersion` to `tls.VersionTLS12` so that triggers run on {product-title} when the Federal Information Processing Standards (FIPS) mode is enabled.

[id="cli-new-features-1-10_{context}"]
=== CLI

* This update adds support to pass a Container Storage Interface (CSI) file as workspace at the time of starting a `Task`, `ClusterTask` or `Pipeline`. 
* This update adds v1 API support to all CLI commands associated with task, pipeline, pipeline run, and task run resources. Tekton CLI works fine with both v1beta1 and v1 APIs for these resources.
* This update adds support for an object type parameter in the `start` and `describe` commands.

[id="operator-new-features-1-10_{context}"]
=== Operator

* This update adds a `default-forbidden-env` parameter in optional pipeline properties. The parameter includes forbidden environment variables that should not be propagated if provided through pod templates.
* This update adds support for custom logos in Tekton Hub UI. To add a custom logo, set the value of the `customLogo` parameter to base64 encoded URI of logo in the Tekton Hub CR. 
* This update increments the version number of the git-clone task to 0.9.

> * With this update, you can define both the `keep` and `keep-since` parameters simultaneously for a `TaskRun` or `PipelineRun` resource in the pruner configuration file.

Reviewer 6: based on the issue https://issues.redhat.com/browse/SRVKP-2998 (actual issue: https://github.com/tektoncd/cli/issues/1990)
we decided not to support `keep` and `keep-since` parameters simultaneously in 1.10 release. we may remove this line
PR: https://github.com/tektoncd/operator/pull/1446

CC @concaf @piyush-garg @rupalibehera @vdemeester @VeereshAradhya

Author: Removed this point from RN @jkandasa. Thanks

> * With this update, GitHub Interceptor blocks a pull request trigger from being executed unless invoked by an owner or with a configurable comment by an owner. To enable or disable this update, set the value of the `githubOwners` parameter to `true` or `false` in the GitHub Interceptor configuration file.

Reviewer 5: Possible admonition about how to enable or disable this function?

> * With this update, you can specify environment variables in a `PipelineRun` or `TaskRun` pod template to override or append the variables that are configured in a task or step. Also, you can specify environment variables in a default pod template to use those variables globally for all `PipelineRuns` and `TaskRuns`. This update also adds a new default configuration `forbidden-ends` to filter the environment variables while propagating from pod templates.

Reviewer 3: This is not CLI, this is pipelines

Author: Incorporated

> * This update adds support for an object type parameter in the `star` and `describe` commands.

Reviewer 3: nit: `start`

Author: Incorporated

* This update adds support for custom logos in Tekton Hub UI. To add a custom logo, set the value of the `customLogo` parameter to base64 encoded URI of logo in the Tekton Hub CR. 
* This update increments the version number of the git-clone task to 0.9.
* This update adds the `resource-verification-mode` and `enable-provenance-in-status` parameters into the `feature-flags` config map for pipelines.
* With this update, you can define both the `keep` and `keep-since` parameters simultaneously for a `TaskRun` or `PipelineRun` resource in the pruner configuration file.

[id="chains-new-features-1-10_{context}"]
=== Tekton Chains

* This update adds annotations and labels to the `PipelineRun` and `TaskRun` attestations.
* This update adds a new format `slsa/v1`, which generates the same provenance as that generated when requesting in the `in-toto` format.
* With this update, Sigstore features are moved out from the experimental features.
* With this update, the `predicate.materials` function includes image URI and digest information from all steps and sidecars for a `TaskRun`.

[id="tekton-hub-new-features-1-10_{context}"]
=== {tekton-hub}

> * This update supports install, upgrade, or downgrade Tekton resources of v1 API version on the cluster.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
* This update supports installation, upgrading, or downgrading Tekton resources of v1 API version on the cluster.
```

> * This update supports install, upgrade, or downgrade of Tekton resources with API versions `tekton.dev/v1beta1` and `tekton.dev/v1` on the cluster.

Author: Incorporated this suggestion

* With this update, {pac} reports an error if multiple pipeline runs with the same name were found.

[id="breaking-changes-1-10_{context}"]
== Breaking changes

* This update removes support for cluster and `CloudEvent` pipeline resources from Tekton CLI. You cannot create pipeline resources by using the `tkn pipelineresource create` command. Also, the pipeline resources are not supported anymore in the `start` command of a task, cluster task, and pipeline.
* This update removes `tekton` as a provenance format from Tekton Chains.

[id="deprecated-features-1-10_{context}"]
== Deprecated and removed features

* In {pipelines-title} 1.10, the `ClusterTask` commands are now deprecated and are planned to be removed in a future release. The `tkn task create` command is also deprecated with this update. 
* In {pipelines-title} 1.10, the flags `-i` and `-o` that were used with the `tkn task start` command are now deprecated because the v1 API does not support pipeline resources.
* In {pipelines-title} 1.10, the flag `-r` that was used with the `tkn pipeline start` command is deprecated because the v1 API does not support pipeline resources.

> * In {pipelines-title} 1.10, the pipeline default embedded status will be moved to minimal in a future release. This update sets the `openshiftDefaultEmbeddedStatus` parameter to `both` with full and embedded status. Also, the flag to change the default embedded status will be removed in a future release.

Reviewer 3: 1.10, This update sets the `openshiftDefaultEmbeddedStatus` parameter to `both` with `full` and `minimal` embedded status. Also, the flag to change the default embedded status will be removed and the pipeline default embedded status will be moved to minimal in a future release.

Author: Incorporated

* With this update, you can configure custom console dashboards in addition to configuring a console for OpenShift and Tekton dashboards for k8s.
* With this update, {pac} detects the installation of a GitHub application initiated using the `tkn pac create repo` command and does not require a GitHub webhook if it was installed globally.
* Before this update, if there was an error on a `PipelineRun` execution and not on the tasks attached to `PipelineRun`, {pac} would not report the failure properly. With this update, {pac} reports the error properly on the GitHub checks when a `PipelineRun` could not get created.  
* With this update, {pac} includes a `target_namespace` variable, which expands to the currently running namespace where the `PipelineRun` is executed.
* With this update, {pac} lets you bypass GitHub enterprise questions in the CLI bootstrap GitHub application.
* With this update, {pac} does not report errors when the repository CR was not found.
* With this update, {pac} reports an error if multiple pipeline runs with the same name were found.

[id="breaking-changes-1-10_{context}"]

> == Breaking changes

Reviewer 4: We should include that the older version of `tkn` is not compatible with `1.10.0`
cc: @vdemeester @concaf @ppitonak

Author: @VeereshAradhya Added this point in the breaking changes section. Please verify.

====

* With this update, custom tasks in pipelines are enabled by default. 
+
[NOTE]
====
To disable this update, set the `enable-custom-tasks` flag to `false` in the `feature-flags` config map file.
====

* This update adds support for the `PipelineRun` reconciler to create a custom run. For example, custom `TaskRuns` created from `PipelineRuns` can now use API version `v1beta1.CustomRuns` instead of `v1alpha1.Runs`, if the `custom-task-version` feature flag is set to `v1beta1`, instead of the default value `v1alpha1`. 
+
[NOTE]
====
You need to update the custom task controller to listen for the `*v1beta1.CustomRun` API version instead of `*v1alpha1.Run` in order to respond to `v1beta1.CustomRun` requests.
====

* This update adds a new parameter `Retries` into `v1beta1.TaskRun` and `v1.TaskRun` API versions.
* This update includes the following changes in the trusted resources verification package: 
** Enable Key Management Service (KMS) in the `VerificationPolicy` library for trusted resources.
** Add a new parameter `KMS` into `v1alpha1.VerificationPolicy` API version. Use this parameter to configure the KMS path and resolve the stored keys.

> ** Add KMS libraries to use KMS for verification purposes.

Reviewer 7: This is alpha, probably not worth having it there yet.

Author: @vdemeester Do you mean i have to remove only this point `Add KMS libraries to use KMS for verification purposes` or the entire bullet point `This update includes the following changes in the trusted resources verification package: `.

Author: Removed the entire bullet point

* This update adds support for tracing using Jaeger and OpenTelemetry. To enable this update, add the following environment variables to the controller manifest:
** `OTEL_EXPORTER_JAEGER_ENDPOINT`: Denotes the HTTP endpoint for sending spans directly to a collector.
** `OTEL_EXPORTER_JAEGER_USER`: Denotes the user name to be sent for authentication to the collector endpoint. This is an optional variable.

> ** `OTEL_EXPORTER_JAEGER_PASSWORD`: Denotes the password to be sent for authentication to the collector endpoint. This is an optional variable.

Reviewer 7: Those are not exposed through the operator though (so not really doable).
cc @jkandasa

Author: @vdemeester Do i need to remove this entire bullet point `This update adds support for tracing using Jaeger and OpenTelemetry. To enable this update, add the following environment variables to the controller manifest:`?

* With this update, {pac} includes a `target_namespace` variable, which expands to the currently running namespace where the `PipelineRun` is executed.
* With this update, {pac} lets you bypass GitHub enterprise questions in the CLI bootstrap GitHub application.
* With this update, {pac} does not report errors when the repository CR was not found.
* With this update, {pac} reports an error if multiple pipeline runs with the same name were found.

[id="breaking-changes-1-10_{context}"]
== Breaking changes

* With this update, the prior version of the `tkn` command is not compatible with {pipelines-title} 1.10.
* This update removes support for cluster and `CloudEvent` pipeline resources from Tekton CLI. You cannot create pipeline resources by using the `tkn pipelineresource create` command. Also, the pipeline resources are not supported anymore in the `start` command of a task, cluster task, and pipeline.
* This update removes `tekton` as a provenance format from Tekton Chains.

[id="deprecated-features-1-10_{context}"]
== Deprecated and removed features

> * In {pipelines-title} 1.10, the `ClusterTask` commands are now deprecated and are planned to be removed in a future release. The `tkn task create` command is also deprecated with this update. 

Reviewer 7: @piyush-garg `tkn task create` deprecated ?

Author: @piyush-garg Could you please confirm the same?

* In {pipelines-title} 1.10, the flags `-i` and `-o` that were used with the `tkn task start` command are now deprecated because the v1 API does not support pipeline resources.
* In {pipelines-title} 1.10, the flag `-r` that was used with the `tkn pipeline start` command is deprecated because the v1 API does not support pipeline resources.
* The {pipelines-title} 1.10 update sets the `openshiftDefaultEmbeddedStatus` parameter to `both` with `full` and `minimal` embedded status. Also, the flag to change the default embedded status will be removed and the pipeline default embedded status will be moved to minimal in a future release.

[id="known-issues-1-10_{context}"]
== Known issues

* This update includes the following backward incompatible changes:

> ** Change in the default value of `EmbeddedStatus`, which is now set to `minimal`.

Reviewer 7: that's not the case, it is set to `both` and it is not a breaking change.

Author: Removed this point from the backward incompatible changes

[id="cli-new-features-1-10_{context}"]
=== CLI

[id="operator-new-features-1-10_{context}"]
=== Operator

[id="chains-new-features-1-10_{context}"]
=== Tekton Chains

[id="tekton-hub-new-features-1-10_{context}"]
=== {tekton-hub}

* This update supports installation, upgrade, or downgrade of Tekton resources with API versions `tekton.dev/v1beta1` and `tekton.dev/v1` on the cluster.

[id="pac-new-features-1-10_{context}"]
=== {pac}

* This update enhances incoming webhook support. For a GitHub application installed on the cluster, you do not need to provide the `git_provider` specification for an incoming webhook. Instead, {pac} detects the secret and use it for the incoming webhook.
* With this update, you can use the same token to fetch remote tasks from the same host on GitHub with a non-default branch.
* With this update, {pac} supports Tekton v1 templates. You can have v1 and v1beta1 templates, which {pac} reads for PR generation. The PR is created as v1 on cluster.

> * Before this update, OpenShift console UI would use a hardcoded pipeline run template as a fallback template when a runtime template was not found in the OpenShift namespace. This update provides a default pipeline run template, `pipelines-as-code-template-default`, in the `pipelines-as-code` config map. 

Reviewer 8: ```suggestion
* Before this update, OpenShift console UI would use a hardcoded pipeline run template as a fallback template when a runtime template was not found in the OpenShift namespace. This update provides a default pipeline run template for the console to use, `pipelines-as-code-template-default`, in the `pipelines-as-code` config map. 
```
